David Gascoyne, the sixteen-year-old cofounder of the
Surrealist Group in England in 1936: “It is the avowed aim of
the surrealist movement to reduce and finally to dispose
altogether of the flagrant contradictions that exist between
dream and waking life, the ‘unreal’ and the ‘real’ the
unconscious and the conscious, and thus to make what has
hitherto been regarded as the special domain of poets, the
acknowledged common property of all.”

“a community of ethical views," as the Czech surrealist
painter Toyen called it in the early 1950

surrealism does not signify unreality, antireality, the
nonsensical, or the absurd. On the contrary, surrealism
open realism — signifies more reality, and an expanded
awareness of reality, including aspects and elements of the
real that are ordinarily overlooked, dismissed, excluded,
hidden, shunned, suppressed, ignored, forgotten, or
otherwise neglected.

Sort: Location

emphatically anti-Eurocentric

The humorous 1929 “Surrealist Map of the World” — drawn
by artist Yves Tanguy— omits almost all of Europe (exce
Paris) and leaves out the entire United States as well

philosophy, magic, myth,

2 spaysaco

history, heresy, the exploration of objective chance, sleep
and dream, the interplay of dialectics and analogy.

?

to liberate the unconscious, they practice hypnosis and
dream interpretation as well as automatic writing and
drawing. They have discovered new techniques, from

Sort: Location
?

Significant, too, was Dumas’ Count of Monte Cristo. As a story
of escape, struggle against injustice, and ultimate revenge, it
has never been surpassed.

s

Victor Hugo was another influence

2 SoAvSAGO

Hugo was an early source of the Surrealist Group's vehement
opposition to white supremacy.

The surrealists’ first black hero was undoubtedly Toussaint
LOuverture,

Breton told of a dream in which he was Zapata,

or other “Art Detention Centers*"* (in ishmae!
apt expression) — but rather as manifestations of

fore vital elements in daily life

As Paul Eluard puts it in “La suppression de résclavage “The
supremacy of Europe is based only on militarism and the
cross—the cross in the service of militarism. ... The white
man is nothing but a corpse—a corpse who dumps his
garbage under the natives’ noses."

“First of all we shall ruin this civilization... in which you

[bourgeois students] are molded like fossils in shale. Western
world, you are condemned to death, We are the defeatists of
Europe, so take care—or, rather, laugh at us. We shall make a
pact with all your enemies.”

traitors to everything that is not freedom.”

s

enthusiasm for the revolt of And El-krim and the Rif

tribespeople of Morocco in the summer of 1925.7 In a July 15
statement they declared their solidarity with the Riffians and

in, & Beige - Surrealist Writings from Af

Sort: Location

malicious caricatures of Africans and Asians. A major
offender in this regard was the journal Documents (not to be
confused with the later Belgian publication of the same
name). Edited by Georges Bataille,

s

host of little pigs similar to the flag of the United States”

Georges Bataille not long afterward mended his ways and
indeed, by mid-decade had joined André Breton and the
surrealists in the formation of an explicitly revolutionary
group, Counter-Attack.

psychoanalytic inquiry not as therapy, but, rather, as a
subversive activity, a form of criticism, and an aid to
humankind's liberation from repression. They were also
impressed by the applications of psychoanalysis to folklor
jokes, the arts, and the whole field of culture

Black, Brown, & Beige - Surrealist Writings from Africa

but other enemies of surrealism had ways of enforcing their
bigotry, In Hitler's Germany, for example, surrealism in
painting and poetry was reviled as degenerate art and
officially forbidden, as it was in Franco's Spain and Hirohito’s
Japan.

PY 4Daysaco

‘The poet fights for surprise.

2 4DAYSAGO

Surrealism looks for a transformation of the world. ... Poetry
is the antithesis of prayer.

‘There is more freedom in a square mile of Paris than in the
tire United States. —Richard Wright

Filter: All Sort: Location

“open the Prisons! Disband the Army!” and “Hands Off
Love!

Ra

Henry Ossawa Tanner, the preeminent African American
artist in Paris from the 1910s until his death in 1937,

2 4paysaco

‘Tanner's influence on young black artists was considerable.
His studio on the Boulevard Saint-Jacques was something of
ashrine for visiting African Americans,

Archibald Motley, from Chicago, spent much of 19291930 in
Paris on a Guggenheim Fellowship,

2 4vaysaco

Langston Hughes also visited Paris. Hughes became a good
friend of Louis Aragon and probably met other surrealists at
demonstrations, cafes,

was actually closer, in spirit and progran

jegrismo

ow later prepared a collection of their surrealist and Marxist

a verdad contempordnea (Contemporary truth

In the 1950s Low was closely linked to the underground 26th
of July movement and helped in the overthrow of dictator

. THE TRIUMVIRATE OF NEGRITUDE AND LETUDIANT NOIR
Sorcerer, release the dreams born here. —Anne Spencer

Césaire, Damas, and Senghor—who in March 1936 started
the paper L'Etudiant Noir, long renowned as one of the
monuments in the history of Negritude.

Indeed, it was in the pages of L'Etudiant Noir that the word

«d by Césaire) first appeared in print

precursors — Rimbaud and Lautréamont above

maican poet and novelist Claude McKay

2?

one of New York's most notorious eccentrics, the German
Baroness Elsa von Freytag-Loringhoven, militant Dadaist

poet, artist, and comrade-in-arms of Marcel Duchamp and
Man Ray.

ro Anthology, edited by Nancy Cunard, Praised by her
friend Marcus Garvey as one who “thinks sympathetically
black,” Cunard had been deeply involved in surrealism since
the mid-1920s; many surrealist gatherings were held at her

